% README -- Contents of the AASTeX macro package distribution

Thanks for your interest in the AASTeX macros for manuscript preparation.
This directory contains all the files in the distribution.  They are
described briefly immediately below.  Following the file descriptions
are short installation instructions, the generic recipe for printing the
user guide and samples, and information about contacting us regarding
the distribution.


README			This file

aasms.doc		Fully documented source for the "manuscript"
			substyle.  Contains macro definitions + comments.
aasms.sty		LaTeX input style file for the "manuscript"
			substyle.  This is the .doc file stripped of
			comments and unnecessary whitespace.

aaspp.doc		Fully documented source for the "preprint"
			substyle.  Contains macro definitions + comments.
aaspp.sty		LaTeX input style file for the "preprint"
			substyle.  This is the .doc file stripped of
			comments and unnecessary whitespace.

aaspptwo.doc		Documented source for a two-column preprint substyle.
aaspptwo.sty		LaTeX input style file for two-column preprint
			substyle.

aj_pt.doc		Documented source for the AJ plano tables substyle.
aj_pt.sty		LaTeX input style file for AJ plano tables substyle.

apjpt.doc		Documented source for the ApJ plano tables substyle.
apjpt.sty		LaTeX input style file for ApJ plano tables substyle.

art8.doc		Documented 8pt style option.
art8.sty		LaTeX input style file for the 8pt style option.

eqsecnum.sty		Substyle file that enables equations to be
			numbered with sections, rather than ordinally.
tighten.sty		Substyle file that causes "manuscript" style
			papers to be single-spaced rather than double.

epsf.sty		A copy of Rokicki's epsf.sty file that is supplied
			with dvips.  It is included so that style files
			can be interpreted, and so that authors can
			include proper space for EPS files even if they
			do not have dvips.

aastex.tex		The user input guide for the package.

sample1.tex		Minimal sample paper.
sample2.tex		Sample paper with "typical" content and markup.
samp2tbl.tex		  "Long" table for sample, marked up as a plano
			  table in the manuscript.

samptbls.tex		Plano tables sample.  Sets style and includes:
table1.tex		  Sample plano table #1.
table2.tex		  Sample plano table #2.
table3.tex		  Sample plano table #3.

graphics.tex		Initial proposal to WGAS and Pubs Board
			suggesting standardized use of Encapsulated
			PostScript for graphics inclusions.
sgi*.eps		Encapsulated PostScript plots for graphics.tex.

kspp.tex		Preprint format proposal from K.Sellgren to the
			Pubs Board.

paper1.tex		LaTeX source for June 1989 AAS poster.
paper2.tex		LaTeX source for June 1990 AAS poster.


aastex30.tar.Z		All of the above files can be retrieved at once
			in this compressed tarfile, if desired.


INSTALLING THE STYLE FILES

The *.sty files must be "installed" so that LaTeX can read them.  This
simply means that they must be placed either in (1) the user's working
directory containing the paper being processed [single-user installation],
or (2) in the TeX/LaTeX system input directory [site-wide installation].

Individuals who obtain the files for their personal use should just put
the files in the same directory that they usually use when preparing
papers, memos, etc. with LaTeX.

Sites that expect usage by several authors will probably find it preferable
to install the files in the standard TeX inputs area.  In the parlances of
popular OS's, these areas are typically called

	/usr/local/lib/tex/inputs	Unix and variants
	SOME$DISK:[TEX.INPUTS]		VMS/Files-11 specification
	C:\EMTEX\TEXINPUT		DOS

The *.doc files are not actually read by LaTeX.  They are the "source code"
files for the corresponding .sty files.  The *.sty files are produced
mechanically from the *.doc files; these .sty files are never edited.
Most installations of LaTeX keep .doc and .sty files in the same directory
so that they can be easily found.  We suggest doing the same with these.

The user's guide and sample papers could be kept in a system-wide TeX
inputs directory as well, but the system administrator may find it desirable
to change the filenames somewhat, since they are quite generic and prone
to filename collisions.


PRINTING THE GUIDE AND SAMPLES

The User Guide should be printed out for best results in reading it.
The Guide is written using the aaspp substyle from the AASTeX macro
package, and is therefore a LaTeX document.  It must be processed by
LaTeX, resulting in a compiled, device-independent format (a .dvi file).
The DVI file has to be translated through a program that knows about the
specific printer you wish to print on; such a program is often called a
"DVI driver".

Suppose you wish to print on a PostScript laser printer, and that the
DVI driver on your computer system is called "dvips".  The generic steps
to be followed to get hardcopy are

    prompt> latex aastex
    prompt> dvips aastex
    prompt> print aastex.ps

There are various system- and program-specific eccentricities which
cannot be fully enumerated here.  Some things to watch out for:

    1.  On some systems, TeX and LaTeX do not permit a filename extension
	(the .tex) on the input file specification; .tex is assumed.
	On other systems, it is optional.
    2.  Most DVI drivers do not require the .dvi extension on the input
	filename.  The extension of the output file (the one destined
	for a specific printer) is variable, often a site-dependent
	configuration parameter.
    3.  The user interfaces for DVI drivers are quite inconsistent.
	Some operate in an interactive mode, asking the user about
	variable setup parameters, while some only accept control
	input on the command line.
    4.  On some systems, the DVI translation and printing are combined,
	so one would enter only one OS command after running LaTeX.

There is no way for us to know details of your installation, so you must
inquire of the system administrator responsible for LaTeX, or hope that
someone has written the LaTeX "Local Guide" for your site.


ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

This package has been prepared by Chris Biemesderfer on behalf of the
AAS Executive Office.  It has evolved from a project of the Working
Group on Astronomical Software (WGAS), chaired by Bob Hanisch of the
Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore.  We would like to
express appreciation to the National Radio Astronomy Observatory and
National Optical Astronomy Observatories for their support of this
project during its germination.

Comments, suggestions, complaints, etc., can be sent electronically.
Community feedback is valuable, and will be retained and evaluated so
that we can coordinate the evolution of the package with the
requirements of editors and publishers as moderated by the AAS
Executive Office and the Publications Board.

cbiemes@noao.edu
7 Jan 1993


REVISION HISTORY

v1.0, Feb 1989
	Original test version written at STScI and NRAO.

v2.0, Jun 1990
	First public release of package to community following AAS meeting
	in Albuquerque.

v2.1, May 1991
	Changed style filenames: aasmanuscript -> aasms, aaspreprint -> aaspp
	for benefit of DOS users, and to conform to Posix.

	Fixed the textheight to compensate for header and footer space
	so that page numbers will in fact be on the bottoms of the pages.

	Updated journal abbreviations as per scheme agreed upon by various
	editors and announced by Helmut Abt in ApJ 357, 1.

	Added an assortment of symbols, etc. from Francois Schweizer.

v2.2, Aug 1991
	Rewrote the tablenote code, using ideas from a style file posted
	to the Usenet in June.  This new implementation permits the use
	of any identifying letters (or number for that matter) for the
	notes, and will print them in the order specified by the user
	rather than assuming alphabetical.  In the process, fixed a bug
	where the buffered tablenotes were not being erased from table
	to table.

	Revised the way journal abbreviations are typeset.  Rather than
	simply being a string, they are now processed through a macro and
	the journal type style is parameterized.

	Moved the WGAS ID footnote to the last page of references from
	title page.  There have been some "complaints" about this being
	present at all, but it is the only way we can keep track of the
	use of the package at this point, so we retain it.

v2.3, Aug 1992
	Formalized naming convention for style files (see Stynames.spc).

	Revisions for compliance with RevTeX markup.
	Added some revtex@ parameters for software development and
	tracking/reporting purposes.  Changed mathsec substyle option
	to eqsecnum (mathsec.sty -> eqsecnum.sty).  Changed
	\mathwithsecnums -> \eqsecnum.  Changed \la -> \alt,
	\ga -> \agt.  Added \text for cased fractions.

	Revised aasms to conform with preferences of UofC Press manuscript
	editors.  Such things as ragged right text, no hyphenation, proper
	double spacing in tables, etc. are ensured.  (G.Brady)

	Fixed bug that resulted in the persistent \footnoterule in table
	footnotes.  (C.Pilachowski, P.Shopbell)

	Added a Makefile to ease development.

v3.0, Dec 1992
	Moved page numbers to top of pages, per request from ApJ
	editorial office.  Created "plaintop" pagestyle for MSs that
	numbers pages at the top of the sheet, centered.

	Added \tablerefs, \tablecomments, \cutinhead, and \sidehead,
	macros to facilitate handling complexities in ApJ/AJ tables.

	Added plano tables styles (non-trivial!).  This includes some
	new author markup that is applicable to "long" tables in MSs
	as well.  Added a "planotables" environment, and commands
	for identifying structural parts of the table: \tablewidth,
	\tablecaption, \tablehead, \colhead, \tableheadfrac, \tabletail,
	\startdata, \nodata, \nl, \tablevspace, \tablebreak, and, in
	the plano style files, \ptlandscape.

	Fixed bug with preliminary plano tables that prevented \nodata
	symbol to be justified with numerals (usually r).  The ellipsis
	or em-dash (or whatever) now centers horizontally as well as
	vertically.  (C.Pilachowski, G.Brady)

	Added some internal parameterization and control of automatic
	upper-casing of section heads, etc.  Authors should NOT be
	instructed to upper case anything; the style should do this
	when necessary.  See remarks in .doc file for more information
	about how the style designer can control this "easily".

	Footnotes in MSs are same size as body text.

	Fixed bug in \altaffiltext so that increment LaTeX footnote now
	increments with alternate affiliation footnotes.  The first
	footnote called out in the text will then be properly numbered
	N+1, where N is the number of \altaffiltexts.

	Added markup for ionization state: \ion.

	Added \singlespace, \doublespace so that leading can be
	adjusted by authors.  Use of these is not encouraged.

	Changed \keywords syntax.  Authors are now required to provide
	proper punctuation in the keyword list.  The earlier attempt at
	parsing the keywords was problematic.

	Added EPS inclusion macros.  These are designed to work with
	Rokicki's dvips program.  There is some concern that these
	should have been designed to work with psfig instead.  My
	opinion about that is that intermediate layer (psfig) is
	redundant with this package and by relying on it we require
	authors to have two additional add-on packages (dvips and
	psfig) rather than one.  The psfig package and the EPS part
	of the AASTeX package both serve the same purpose, namely,
	to isolate the author from the details of the DVI driver.
	The AASTeX package goes a bit farther in explicilty defining
	descriptive markup semantics for specifying external plot files.

	Revisions for compliance with RevTeX markup.
	Changed \tightenlines -> \tighten.  Changed \alt -> \lesssim,
	\agt -> \gtrsim.  Changed \text -> \case.  Added \slantfrac.
	Changed \applopt -> \ao.

	Added slug line markup for assorted administrative details.
	\revised, \paperid, \ccc, \cpright, \rectohead, \versohead, and
	\slugcomment can all be used in preamble.  Formatting for slug
	line data has been isolated in internal \@dates, \@runheads,
	\@slug, and \@makeslugcmmnt.  \@journalname and \cpr@holder
	have been added as internal parameters.

	Added \authoraddr front matter (or back matter, whatever)
	command for specifying author's postal address.  This is the
	address that is preferred for correspondence.

	Added \markcite to correspond with references environment
	to provide non-BibTeX-based citation and reference list
	markup.  \markcite does not do anything typographically in
	AAS styles because the citation call-out style is straight
	text.  This is included partly for symmetry, but mostly
	because we want to start training authors to identify
	structure in their manuscripts.  In the future, browsers
	with hypertext-like capabilities will be widely available
	to build linkage between citations, references, and the
	articles being cited/referenced, and this will facilitate
	preparation of the articles for such systems.

	Changed \appendix to reset the equation counter and to
	redefine \theequation.

	Added mathletters environment to support "subequations".
	This environment is used to suspend incrementing of the
	primary equation counter in favor of a secondary one, so
	that related equations can be grouped with the same
	identifying number while still being separately identified
	with lower case letters.  I originally called this new
	environment "letteredsubeqn" but changed to "mathletters"
	for RevTeX compliance.

	Added \eqnum, \tablenum, and \figurenum commands to enable
	authors to override LaTeX automatic numbering for equations,
	tables and figures.  The corresponding LaTeX counter is NOT
	auto-incremented when these commands are used.  The commands
	function by temporarily overriding \the<counter>; formatting
	defined by \@eqnnum, \fnum@table, and \fnum@figure  is not
	affected.  Note that these commands must be used *inside* the
	appropriate displayed equation or float environment.
