% README -- Contents of the AGU LaTeX style file package

Thank you for your interest in AGU's LaTeX style files for manuscript 
preparation.  This directory contains all of the necessary files.  
Below is a brief description of each file.  Installation instructions, 
information on printing the user guide and sample, and information 
about contacting AGU follow the file descriptions.


README           This file

aguguide.tex     User guide for the package.

sample.tex       Sample paper with markup and comments.
sample.aux       Sample paper's auxiliary file.

agums.doc        Fully documented source for the "manuscript"
                 substyle.  Contains macro definitions and comments.
agums.sty        LaTeX input style file for the "manuscript" substyle. 
                 This is the .doc file stripped of comments and
                 unnecessary white space.

agupp.doc        Fully documented source for the "preprint" substyle. 
                 Contains macro definitions and comments.
agupp.sty        LaTeX input style file for the "preprint" substyle. 
                 This is the .doc file stripped of comments and
                 unnecessary white space.

grlga.doc        Fully documented source for the GRL galley substyle. 
                 Contains macro definitions and comments.
grlga.sty        LaTeX input style file for the GRL galley substyle. 
                 This is the .doc file stripped of comments and
                 unnecessary white space.

jgrga.doc        Fully documented source for the Journal of
                 Geophysical Research, Paleoceanography, and Global
                 Biogeochemical Cycles galley substyle.  Contains
                 macro definitions and comments.
jgrga.sty        LaTeX input style file for JGR, Paleoceanography,
                 and Global Biogeochemical Cycles galley substyle. 
                 This is the .doc file stripped of comments and
                 unnecessary white space.

radga.doc        Fully documented source for the Radio Science galley
                 substyle.  Contains macro defs and comments.
radga.sty        LaTeX input style file for the Radio Science galley
                 substyle.  This is the .doc file stripped of comments
                 and unnecessary white space.

rtjga.doc        Fully documented source for the Russian translation
                 journals substyle.  Contains macro defs and comments.
rtjga.sty        LaTeX input style file for the Russian translation
                 journals substyle.  This is the .doc file stripped of
		 comments and unnecessary white space.

tecga.doc        Fully documented source for the Tectonics galley
                 substyle.  Contains macro definitions and comments.
tecga.sty        LaTeX input style file for the Tectonics galley
                 substyle.  This is the .doc file stripped of comments
                 and unnecessary white space.

agu10.doc        Documented 10 point style option.
agu10.sty        LaTeX input style file for the 10 point style option.

agu11.doc        Documented 11 point style option.
agu11.sty        LaTeX input style file for the 11 point style option.

amssym.sty	 Front-end substyle for the AMS fonts.  The AMS fonts
		 must already be installed on the system.

tighten.sty      May be used with the "manuscript" substyle when making
                 preprints for colleagues (do not submit this style to 
                 editor or reviewers).  This option causes manuscripts to 
                 be single-spaced rather than double-spaced.

flushrt.sty      May be used with the "manuscript" substyle when making
                 preprints for colleagues (do not submit this style to 
                 editor or reviewers).  This option justifies the right 
                 margin and re-enables hyphenation.


INSTALLING THE STYLE FILES

The *.sty files must be "installed" so that LaTeX can read them.  This
simply means that they must be placed either in (1) the user's working
directory containing the paper being processed (single-user installation), 
or (2) in the TeX/LaTeX system input directory (site-wide installation).

Individuals who obtain the files for their personal use should just put
the files in the same directory that they usually use when preparing
papers, memos, etc., with TeX.

Sites that expect usage by several authors will probably find it preferable 
to install the files in the standard TeX inputs area.  In the parlances of 
popular operating systems, these areas are typically called

     /usr/local/lib/tex/inputs        Unix and variants
     SOME$DISK:[TEX.INPUTS]           VMS/Files-11 specification
     C:\EMTEX\TEXINPUT                DOS

The *.doc files are not actually read by LaTeX.  They are the "source
code" files for the corresponding .sty files.  The *.sty files are
produced mechanically from the *.doc files; these .sty files are never
edited.  Most installations of LaTeX keep .doc and .sty files in the
same directory so that they can be easily found.  We suggest doing the
same with these.

The user's guide and sample papers could be kept in a system-wide 
TeX inputs directory as well, but the system administrator may find 
it desirable to change the filenames somewhat, since they are quite 
generic and prone to filename collisions.


PRINTING THE GUIDE AND SAMPLES

To make reading easier, the User Guide should be printed.  The guide
is written using the agupp substyle from the AGU LaTeX macro package 
and is therefore a LaTeX document.  It must be processed by LaTeX, 
resulting in a compiled, device-independent format (a .dvi file).  
The DVI file has to be translated through a program that knows about 
the specific printer you wish to print on; such a program is often 
called a "DVI driver."

Suppose you wish to print on a PostScript laser printer, and the DVI
driver on your computer system is called "dvips."  The generic steps
to get hard copy are:

    prompt> latex manual
    prompt> dvips manual
    prompt> print manual.ps

There are various system- and program-specific eccentricities that cannot 
be fully enumerated here, but you should watch out for the following:

  1.     On some systems, TeX and LaTeX do not permit a filename
         extension on the input file specification; the ".tex" is assumed. 
         On other systems, it is optional.

  2.     Most DVI drivers do not require the .dvi extension on the
         input filename.  The extension of the output file (the one
         destined for a specific printer) is variable, often a
         site-dependent configuration parameter.

  3.     The user interfaces for DVI drivers are quite inconsistent. 
         Some operate in an interactive mode, asking the user about
         variable setup parameters, while some only accept control
         input on the command line.

  4.     On some systems the DVI translation and printing are
         combined, so one would enter only one operating system
         command after running LaTeX.

There is no way to know details of your installation, so you must
inquire of the system administrator responsible for TeX or hope that
someone has written the LaTeX "Local Guide" for your site.


ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS

This package has been prepared by Chris Biemesderfer on behalf of the 
American Geophysical Union, with advice and help from Becky Hunter, 
Steve Cole, Pam Knox, Marian Thor, and Judy Holoviak.  Comments, 
suggestions, and complaints, etc., may be sent electronically to 
the following Internet address:

rhunter@kosmos.agu.org

Please be patient and understanding; it may not be possible to reply to
individual mailings.  We will retain and evaluate community input and
will coordinate the evolution of the package with stated needs as well
as with the requirements of editors and publishers as moderated by the
AGU Executive Office and the Publications Committee.

14 Feb 94


REVISION HISTORY

v1.0, Aug 1992
     Original version, based on AAS/WGAS LaTeX package and
     RevTeX specifications.

v1.1, Dec 1992/Jan 1993
     Revised list of journal abbreviations.  (M.Thor)

     Updated all styles for additional markup capabilities of RevTeX
     and AASTeX.

     Wrote README information, etc.

v1.2, Apr 1993
     Revised specifications per S. Cole.

     Created single style for JGR, Paleoceanography, and Global
     Biogeochemical Cycles (jgrga).
      
     Added GRL style.

     Arranged for TeX to be silent about wide front and back matter. 
     Authors will still see overfull complaints about copy that is
     genuinely too wide for the specification.

     Eliminated \sluginfo from author's markup.  The placement and
     ordering of slug data is not the author's concern, and the styles
     now handle this properly without author intervention.

     Changed \authoraddr to \authoraddress.  Changed functioning of
     \authoraddress so that the command can be placed with the rest of
     the author and affiliation information in the title block.  The
     addresses will be formatted and printed as appropriate for each
     style.

v3.0, Jun 1993
     Added \figurewidth to agums style.

     Warning about numerous author groups disabled.

     Disabled automatic section numbering by default.

     Corrected copyright statements.

     Turned on footnote indentation in galley styles.

     Hyphenation disabled in \section.

     \appendix changed to reset various things per AGU requirements
     for numbering in appendices.  \section commands in the appendix
     do not generate any label; the author must include the proper
     label in the heading.  Table and equation numbering corrected.

     Many plano table formatting bugs repaired.

     Added "plate" environment to all styles.

v3.1, Feb 1994
     Added \platenum in all styles.

     Updated \@dates processing in all style files to repair punctuation
     bug (@rcvaccrule was appearing on some galleys and causing minor
     author distress).  It will also now be easier to adjust the dates
     typography in the future.

     Added amssym.sty as a front end for the amssym.* files that would
     be installed with AMSfonts v2.1 and higher.  As long as the AMS
     fonts are installed on the system, authors could add amssym as a
     substyle with jgrga (or whatever) to get the AMS font definitions.

     Added rtjga.sty for Russian Translation Journals.

