Date: Fri, 4 Dec 92 01:12:30 EST
From: alvarez@physics.berkeley.edu (the big O)
Subject: Mac stuff

If you do not have access to a UNIX workstation but have access to the
internet and can download e-print archive files to your Macintosh,
you might find the following useful. Most of the UNIX utilities required to
process TeX files are available as Macintosh
freeware/shareware utilities via anonymous FTP. Additionally, a free
version of TeX called OzTeX is available via anonymous ftp from
midway.uchicago.edu in the "pub" directory.

The ensuing discussion assumes you have a familiarity with UNIX, ftp,
and with Macintosh binhex (.hqx) files. 

A variety of utilities to perform UNIX functions on the Macintosh are
available via anonymous ftp from sumex.stanford.edu or one of its
mirrors such as wuarchive.wustl.edu.  On sumex.stanford.edu, login as
anonymous then issue the command "cd info-mac". You might find it
useful to read the help files in the directory "/info-mac/help".  In
the directory "/info-mac/util" you will find four especially useful
utilities stored as binhex files (.hqx files are ASCII files and
should be ftp'ed and downloaded as text files).

  /info-mac/util/maccompress-32.hqx
  /info-mac/util/suntar-132.hqx
  /info-mac/util/tar-30.hqx
  /info-mac/util/uutool-232.hqx

Maccompress is for compressing/uncompressing UNIX compressed files (.Z files) 
on the Macintosh. You should be careful to choose in the format menu 
"UNIX compress" because UNIX systems and the Macintosh use different characters
for the end of a line. In UNIX the "linefeed" character (control-J) 
is used while the macintosh uses the "return" character (control-M).

Suntar is a useful utility which allows the Macintosh to read 1.4 MB HD
floppies which contain UNIX tar or bar archives. This is useful for
transfering files from a work UNIX machine to a Mac at home.

UNIX tar archives (.tar) files may be untarred on your mac by the use of
the tar utility.

UUtool is for uuencoding and uudecoding files on your mac.
